The square of elected begin the, uh,
things that money was the, not all together novel or starting and nothing,
that the guests are here at the place you're by to me,
were happy to have you in the committee room,
we have a standing unit of the committee that there could be no manifestations of a
approval or disapproval at any time,
and the officers have a prevailing order from the committee,
so politely as truck from the room,
those who decide to themselves deviling that committee in jump.
And the chair says that he was very happy that I believe his memory
correctly had been no interruptions from the audience for any kind this week.
Nobody has violated the rules and make manifestations of a approval or disapproval.
We are ready to begin with the committee.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Wilson, who are you pointing to?
I have a statement bearing on my relations with Mr. Jenkins that I would like to make.
I have informed Mr. Jenkins of my desire to make it.
Mr. Jenkins says that I is in charge of you have so informed that it feels
that the general discussion we had yesterday,
I think it's probably a complete issue that has the opportunity to make a statement.
It's quite short.
Yesterday in an open hearing, I stated that by unanimous vote of the subcommittee,
that it's exactly session the previous evening, a resolution was passed,
directing a special counsel, Mr. Jenkins, to confer with me and others
in an effort to reach a formula to expedite or shorten these hearings.
I stated that for sure, in that resolution, this is Jenkins conferred with me.
I further stated that I would not be satisfied with a formula whereby Senator McCarthy
would follow Mr. Stevens and be subjected to an examination and cross-examination
and that the hearing was then the end.
I stated that Mr. Jenkins concurred with me in my opinion that this should not be done.
Mr. Jenkins has conferred with me about what was said, and it is now my opinion that my statement
of yesterday morning left an erroneous impression which was all of which was inadvertent on my part,
but occurred with this.
Mr. Jenkins agreed with me that the termination of this hearing on that formula
would not enable any of the parties to present all of the facts pertaining to the issues.
He did not express his opposition to such a formula, as he has always indicated
that the question of curtailing or terminating this hearing was entirely up to the subcommittee.
I am not exactly a point of order with the terminating, two matters I would like to bring up.
Number one, the question is how long Mr. Stevens' laminar stamp has been read very frequently.
He hasn't here long time now.
The way we are going yesterday, it will take many, many days, and it is the cross-examination
of Mr. Stevens.
I have had one of my stamp giving me an estimate of the time we spent in the questions and family answers.
The interruptions yesterday, the best estimate we can get is the way spent in 20 and 25 minutes
asking questions, the rest of the time we have used up and what I consider very lengthy answers.
I assume the secretary thought he was answering directly.
The interruptions, even mine, of course, Mr. Stevens, is the excuseer, and I have no choice
to ask all the questions in my staff and excuse me using improper pressure.
Nevertheless, Mr. Chairman, I think that it is not exactly proper to keep one man on the stamp,
as long as Mr. Stevens has them, Stevens has been kept here.
I would like to very much therefore have a meeting of the committee this noon,
so if we can't work out some system whereby we can get a secretary a long weekend off,
so I can come back next Monday and start the price.
I just don't like keeping here any of these lights throughout this week.
I don't want to discuss that now, Mr. Chairman, I would like to have a meeting
because the committee this noon, if we couldn't executive sessions, I could discuss what I had in mind.
Mr. Chairman, I move that we've received with the hearings.
The chair would like to inquire as to may have sent him a traffic weather
that's request for an executive session.
Deals were trying to find some way, if he understands it,
either of expediting the hearings or whether there's a suggestion that we find a way of possible
to change the order of witnesses, so that Mr. Stevens who has them under the lights
and before the committee for a long time, they sort of have a refresher period
that I'm to tell you to say perhaps until next Monday.
Mr. Chairman, I was not suggesting the executive sessions for any purposes.
I expediting as I said before, I would not talk to Mr. Welch except under oath after the break of the agreement.
I merely want to talk to the members of the committee about some way of giving Mr. Stevens a rest.
He has an ask for one, he has not communicated with me that he wants one.
I have no indication from him that he wants her as.
I think you have been vital to one, I'd like to discuss with the committee a change in the ground rule
without establishing a precedent so he can take time off.
What were Dr. McQueen to move out of the middle of the game?
I would think not, but if we could find a way, it seems to me that we, to follow some other witness
and give Mr. Stevens a rest, the sheriff speaking for himself alone, feels that Mr. Stevens is entitled to arrest.
He has done her a long time and he would certainly be persuaded tremendously by any suggestion
which would not destroy the equity of the hearings or change the rules that Wich would give.
Mr. Stevens, the sheriff, was the chair of a leave, he has which clearance.
I mean, I'm having a committee meeting for that purpose and I would suggest that if we proceed to put the telephone
monitor telephone calls in the director, that will take some time and it will give Mr. Stevens an opportunity to
ensure his testimony to all of those telephone conversations that placed in the director.
Mr. Lawyer, that's an act that's been acted upon by the committee about the long ago I can't remember over a week again.
Mr. Chairman, that connection I would like to ask you a question if I may.
Well, there will be a question of which monitors calls our confidence as to how the money for the actors,
all the monitors calls.
I understand that I'm wrong with the action which is threatening.
I understand that some of the army has supplied you with copies of all monitors calls.
I have never seen a single one yet.
Well, as I misinformed the suggestion, I have not received.
I have not received one.
I have not seen copies of the monitors calls at the very bottom.
In other words, you've been told all about them at all.
Mr. Chairman, I'm here to ask you a question.
Mr. Lawyer, this is the right distance to call an executive committee meeting at two o'clock in my office which I still do.
And I hope that some of it will come some point of this so that we can release Mr. Stevens for the rest of the afternoon and he hopes longer to get a rest which I think is going to be.
Mr. Lawyer, this is the right distance to get a rest which I think is going to be.
Mr. Lawyer, another point for Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Lawyer, I just want to be sure that the committee members all understand that we'll have an executive committee meeting in my office at two o'clock.
Mr. Lawyer, you may be there.
Mr. Lawyer, I think if you are there, it's only fair that Mr. Welch also be there.
Mr. Lawyer, have you come?
Mr. Lawyer, a son raised his things about me, sir.
I think I would prefer not to it, sir.
Mr. Lawyer, I'm not gett to the subject.
You have to take care.
I haven't mind a bucket.
Yes, Mr. Chairman, the point of order.
I understand the many men and decided, and I think rightly so, to put them monitor phone calls if it is proven that you have all the calls, if they are complete.
I understand that at least some members of the committee on both sides of the aisle have either received the copies of the calls or have been fully informed of the contents of the calls.
I have not seen any of the calls.
I do think that in view of the fact that Mr. Welch has seen all the calls.
Some of the committee members have.
I believe it told me fair that I have access to those monitor calls also so I can check with my staff.
The Chairman of other units, they think the calls have been included.
Other things have been held out.
I think it is probably important that the Chairman in view of the evidence we had yesterday in regard to file shipping.
I want to make sure there is no monitor phone calls.
Mr. Chairman, the share will hold it after a week.
I would like the permission of the Chair to read into the record of the wire which I sent to Mr. Stevens this morning.
Very brief.
I have a permission.
That is not a possible.
It is not a point of order.
It is not an early, now I have to send it to the level not good if the committee goes to work.
Mr. Chairman, this is how it is to do with...
The Chairman has a justice.
Fairfield that the wire should not be read because the senator is not testifying at this time.
Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Welch, he is telling the committee to do the request.
If he is not going to detect the wire but he does not believe it should be in public.
Mr. Chairman.
Then I would like to pass this wire to the Chair with the request that he subpoena the material mentioned within this wire has to do with the letter.
Mr. Chairman, everyone knows government is a continuous process and I got a little disdiscussed over the fact when I have been a state of official service in the whole life day after day if it is not necessary.
Now we have not called on Mr. Hentel.
It is undetermined as to when we shall get there.
There are so many tensions on the international horizon and as everyone knows, he is the secretary for international security affairs.
And certainly it is not necessary to have both he and his council here.
I wonder if the committee could not agree that Mr. Hentel is going back to work until some time as we have to have him.
If there is any objection for many members of the committee, it is missing Mr. Hentel until he is called by the committee.
Mr. Chairman.
And in the matter, I do not know whether Mr. Hentel has requested that he be released from attendance if he has been unwilling to grind it.
Mr. Hentel, I have his presence here.
He is needed and his own interest and the sense of the charges against him, I do not think this committee has the right to order him to stay away until he is called.
I think the chairman has found that any implication on the part of the agenda of no one knows if he was arguing with Mr. Hentel, I did not get that.
I thought it was something that we were not arguing him to be here.
That is right.
Mr. Hentel, Mr. Hentel, you are certainly true that as the assistant secretary of the time for either of the members of the committee to be released from attendance.
Mr. Hentel has a national security affairs. Mr. Hentel has numerous matters of prime importance to the nation filing up on his desk.
I would say this, that if we can have an understanding that Mr. Hentel's name will not be brought into the hearings in his office, he will be prepared to be returned at any point and on any day.
Or at any time when the suggestion is made that his name may commend these proceedings, and we shall come back.
If the fact is satisfactory to the chair, if the fact is satisfactory to everybody here, Mr. Hentel, I am sure, will appreciate the opportunity to attend to his important official duties.
Mr. Hentel's name might not be mentioned, but we should be able to reveal that none of the issues involving him would be discussed.
Mr. Hentel's name is now the member of the committee, and staff and councils for all parties involved, that he may raise a point of order as a statement against any discussion of the issues involving Mr. Hentel's.
Mr. Hentel, if I can get that to George now, then I would think Mr. Hentel might face the absence of Mr. Hentel here.
Does the chair hear any adjustments?
Mr. Hentel, I don't quite understand the chair's suggestion.
You mean that in cost examining what concerns we cannot mention with the council's name?
I mean, in that lecture, I am going to examine the secretary this morning, on a question which he was furway being countered, with the same hair he has today.
He testified positively yesterday that Mr. Hent irs not present and he returned to the meeting with the chair and myself in the direction of the center potter.
The night that there was someone who thought up the smear of the apparently unMr. Cohn and Mr. Carr, I find that Mr. Hentel was present, and that Mr. Stephen apparently had a considerable conference with him.
I will bring up that question.
Mr. Hentel, why would he present?
Well, I just want to make it clear that I will not be crammed from asking which Mr. Hentel is present and which Mr. Hentel is present and which Mr. Hentel is present.
I will say this Mr. Hentel, I certainly will be glad to go along with the chair, and so far is not raising any new issues about Mr. Hentel's concerns, but I can't refrain from trusting these witnesses as they appear.
The doubly true Mr. Hentel view of the fact that one of the allegations between Hentel and Mr. Hentel, Mr. Hentel, is not reminded.
Mr. Hentel, I can't help there for a certain time.
May I say also, Mr. Hentel, for the benefit of Mr. Hentel and his counsel, while they are here.
I'm not sure this has been put forth clearly and conflated enough so they're fully worn.
I do think the allegations in our specifications are broad enough to cover it, but I want to notify Mr. Hentel that when he gets on the ban, another witness is there on the ban, I will discuss in some detail from the standpoint of more than his part, because activities in Europe after he was notified that he would be made given a job he's now got.
I'm a fan of more.
I believe that the action that the view of the type of questions, the family said, you're going to engage in this morning, at the Hentel, my third father, will want to be here.
Mr. Hentel, I think we will at least remain through this month.
Very well.
Mr. Hentel, thank you.
Mr. Hentel, yes today, I mean, the committee instructed me to confer with Jay at the Hoover, with respect to a copy of a letter allegedly in the files of the intelligence department of the Army, and declare that issue this morning.
I am now prepared to do so.
Prior to so early.
I desire to ask the secretary one question.
Mr. Stephen, since yesterday, Hentel, have you or not, through yourself, are those on the command, examined the files of the intelligence department at the Pentagon, with a special reference to the original as a letter about which you were questioning yesterday.
Yes sir.
Say whether or not, that's a letter was found in that file or any other file.
Notice.
And I'm as chairman, desire as dictated, send as I momentarily, and let me clarify that issue.
And I desire to call as the next witness.
My assistant counsel, one of my assistant counsel, and a member of my staff, Mr. Robert A. Collier.
The Collier, please. Take the witness, please.
Nothing's born.
That's just about it, yes, everybody.
No, everyone loves that.
Hold no hand.
Sorry, major, I had to.
You saw on this letter testimony you were about to give, as the truth, the whole truth, I had nothing but the truth, so I hope you guys.
I do.
Mr. Secretary, please change your phone name.
Robert A. Collier.
Collier, you are a member of the staff, of my staff, assistant counsel.
Is that correct?
Yes sir.
Mr. Collier, formally, have you or not been employed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation?
I was there, I was employed from April 1, 1941 until October 26, 1951.
You were present yesterday at the noon when a discussion occurred with respect to a letter, with you give the data, as the Collier's escaped me.
January 26, 1921.
And that's which time the committee instructed me to either myself or if I, some member of my staff, confer personally with Mr. J. S. Orzuber, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Are you present?
Yes.
So I'll ask you whether or not at the close of the meeting has assigned that task to you.
You did say whether or not pursuant to that Mr. Collier, you conferred with Mr. Hoover personally.
I did.
At what time approximately, yesterday at the noon are you from approximately 515 until approximately 715?
During the course of your conversation with Mr. Hoover, I will ask you whether or not be called upon you to procure and shoulder him the copy of the letter about which we are talking.
Yes sir he did.
And I've been dated January 26, 1951.
As a result of that, for Christmas, Mr. Hoover did or not you go to Mr. Cohn's office and procure that copy I did.
And then they give the Mr. Hoover, I did.
And was it shown to him?
Yes sir.
I'm Mr. Collier.
Now at this time, without my taking the time and still in the end, it's just exoriting the gains, I ask you to chronologically relate the incident for that conference with Mr. Hoover.
What was done, pursuant to the request of the committee, and what was said to you by Mr. Hoover.
For underseating your instructions, I communicated with the FBI and within a very short period of time, a same day appointment with Mr. Hoover.
I went to see him having advised them with a date and the type of letter involved.
Mr. Hoover at that time informed me that they had not found such a letter.
We did have another letter of the same date.
In order to be perfectly sure that they had obtained a correct letter, I returned to the Senate Office Billing and obtained from Roy Cohen and Senator McCarthy's office.
The letter, which I now have in my hand in which was the one produced yesterday by Senator McCracken.
I took that letter to Mr. Hoover, and at that time, he compared this letter with the letter in his position as the same date.
I can now report to you that Mr. Hoover advised me that this letter is not identified as a letter when it sees this letter.
This is the letter produced yesterday by Senator McCracken.
This is not a carbon copy or a copy of any communication prepared or stamped by the FBI to general bowling on January 26, 1951 or any other date.
The FBI has in its file a letter.
Are you now stating what Mr. Hoover personally had on the duty?
Yes, you may proceed.
The FBI does have in its file a file copy of a letter dated January 26, 1951, the same date, prepared and stamped by the FBI to general bowling, which was a 15 page interdepart metal, metal ants, a carbon copy of last went to Major General Joseph F. Kowell, United States Air Force.
Mr. Hoover, in comparing the two documents, advised me that the form of the carbon copy, which I have, one interduse, and the yellow copy of the FBI memorandum prepared on January 26 are materially different in form.
I can recount for you, as Mr. Hoover advised me, the difference in that form.
For the purpose of identification, I will refer to the document introduced yesterday as the carbon copy and the yellow copy in the FBI file today as a 15 page memorandum as the FBI original.
On the FBI original, the word federal Bureau of Investigations is printed in large block letters and draws the top of the page.
On the carbon copy, they were federal Bureau of Investigations just typed.
The date, January 26, 1951 appears directly beneath the type F federal Bureau of Investigations on the carbon copy and is in a different position on the page of the FBI original.
The carbon copy has, across the top, personal and confidential, the LA does.
The FBI original has in the upper right hand corner the word confidential, the LA does.
The memorandum, the FBI original, is in the form of an interdepartmental memorandum.
It is not signed, it merely carries the name of the director and the FBI.
The carbon copy would indicate a signature of what to be a fix.
The FBI original was addressed to Major General A.R. Bowling.
The carbon copy is addressed to Major General Bowling, the initial ARF, who went down.
The same word, the system chief of staff, G2, Department of the Army appear on both documents.
In the FBI original, the additional word for Pentagon appears.
That is not currently the carbon copy and the word Washington DC appear on both documents.
The FBI original has the word from and then the word John Edgar Hoover director, federal Bureau of Investigations.
That is not on the carbon copy.
The FBI original has the word subject and then typed there on, Aeron AAROM.
The FBI, the FBI, is the R.A.R.
The R.A.R. is the R.A.R.
I'm not sure if I'm going to say that, but the FBI original is the S.A.R.
Yes sir.
In other words, the subject John Aeron, the FBI, is the FBI original.
It does not appear on the carbon copy.
This carbon copy carries the citation, sir.
The FBI original carried no citation.
This carbon copy is two and one-quarter pages in length.
The FBI original is 15 pages in length.
The carbon copy at the end carries the word sincerely yours, J. Edgar Hoover director.
That of course did not appear at the end of the FBI original, but actually appeared in the two-bomb relation in the beginning.
The carbon copy shows no carbon copy being sent to anyone else.
Could I interrupt Mr. Chairman?
Would you like my pardon?
Yes, I think if the cover of this thing is a point of order that we show that I had wired Mr. Sevens and asked him to produce the copies.
The additional pages we did not have, I thought of eight pages, Mr. Youngman for the 15 pages.
I believe I asked eight pages.
I think director should show that I had wired Mr. Sevens told him that I was asked that the additional pages would be made.
Great. That's a big audience here. 10 minutes for you that you have the questions.
Welcome, Mr. Chair.
Hansley Chair, I exceeded my request.
The request made to Mr. Sevens also by wire, let the additional pages be subpoenaed to the pages that I do not have.
I think that you should be...
Sure, it's not yet had a time to examine the telegram that you sent up in the desk.
I would like to pass the chairman a diagram that's gone, which will give you a more visual reference to the way these two letters were sent out.
Ladies, I'll make a point of order.
Point of order, Senator Sanders?
When the witness discusses the carbon copy, he might say the alleged carbon copy.
Mr. Chairman, I'd like to know who alleged to the carbon copy.
We never alleged to the carbon copy.
The copy you made, Mr. Sanders.
The FBI original on the last page thereof,
shows the following.
CC, Major General Joseph F. Tarrill, C-A-R-R-O-L-L, director, special investigations, the Infecture General, USAF.
Now that is the difference in form alone, I'm distinguishing between form and substance.
Mr. Hoover advised me, and examined the two documents in my presence, advised me that the substance of the original FBI 15 page memorandum,
and the substance of the two-in-one-quarter page carbon copy,
contained information relating to the same subject matter, and that in some instances,
the exact or identical language appeared in both documents.
Other than that, Mr. Hoover feels that you further clarify it with reveal, possibly reveal the substance of the documents themselves,
and on that point, Mr. Hoover asked me to inform you that he respectfully refers the committee to the Attorney General for his opinion,
as to whether or not the contents can be made public in line with security requirements.
And simply, language is from incidents identical, that would apparently be a global goal.
A document.
Collier had you in detail related all of the events, that staying in your conference with Mr. Hoover,
Professor, I have no further questions with the Chair.
One question, Chair, is that certain, and I'm not sure if you can answer this question.
Did you determine whether the FBI original was in the files of the military and available to Secretary Steve?
I'll go back to the question.
Ray asked me, I did not complete it.
On that point, I determined that the yellow copy in the FBI file, which is the file copy,
tell you the following, and written note case, concerning the original,
for delivered to Donald Framer, the RMER G2,
127-51-WRP,
and representative of the FBI, Wesley C. Reynolds,
the carbon copy, to Major General Joseph F. Carroll,
for the loading to a handwritten note, say, yellow, levied, LHTY, OSI-129-51,
ESS, initial standing for EDF-7.
The original was a family delivery in 1951.
They were served, and were delivered to C2 at that time.
The Memorand number, which is January,
the federal training on the one-to-one,
whenever I'm originally from the five-man copy was delivered personally by Mr. Ed Sanders,
to OSI-129-51.
The chairman's agenda is that the fight papers that you hold are not
and exact duplicates are replica of the yellow sheet with you held.
The yellow sheet by the FBI, the white beams and the bios of Senator Carnocia.
These yellow sheets are merely my notes,
and my own handwritten note, the yellow copy of the 15 page document,
I did not examine because it contained security information.
I did not go into the substance of the document itself, and I'll see you in Title II.
I received my answer from the examination made by Mr. Hoover.
That yellow copy is now in the possession of the idea.
And if you were quoting Mr. Hoover,
and when you said that in some instances, the language was identical,
that the subject matter was the subject matter, both of the FBI copies.
And of the copies from Sendermy Traffy Files,
because it deal with an identical subject,
should not be revealed in public,
so the ruling of the Attorney General, is that correct?
I want to make it clear, Mr. Hoover did not, of course,
refer to this carbon copy when he stated that,
because actually this is not a carbon copy of any FBI document.
He was referring to his own document, the 15 page memorandum,
when he suggested that I respectfully refer to you to the Attorney General for his opinion.
You were speaking for yourself then when you said that,
because you had told you that in some instances, the language was identical,
that the subject matter was identical,
that you believe that without authorization from the Attorney General,
we should not discuss this that I'd correct, Mr. Hoover made no comment
and bring this carbon copy.